% WARNING: THIS FILE IS GENERATED BY genSchemaDocs. DO NOT EDIT.
% Generated: 02:46PM on March 26, 2026


(LightFilter)=
# LightFilter

Use filters to modulate the effects of a
light. Light filters are associated with lights using the LightAPI 
`light:filters` relationship. See {ref}`usdLux_light_filters` for more details 
on light filters.

Note that a LightFilter prim is considered a connectable prim for UsdShade 
networks, and should follow the rules for 
[UsdShade node encapsulation](https://openusd.org/release/api/usd_shade_page_front.html#UsdShadeEncapsulation).
Additionally, a LightFilter is a connectable container and may have connectable
children such as shaders that implement the filter. While the order of
application of LightFilters is expressed via the LightAPI's `light:filters` 
relationship, LightFilters may also be nested inside other LightFilters to 
indicate they only apply to that one LightFilter's contribution in the 
filter-chain. While LightFilters can (and are encouraged to be) nested inside 
light prims (with LightAPI applied), they cannot be nested under 
unrelated connectable container prims like UsdShade Material.

```{contents}
:depth: 2
:local:
:backlinks: none
```

(LightFilter_properties)=

## Properties

(LightFilter_collection:filterLink:includeRoot)=

### collection:filterLink:includeRoot

**USD type**: `bool`

**Fallback value**: `True`

Use the filterLink collection to specify which
geometry Prims to be included or excluded from this light filter. Prims 
excluded or not included will not be affected by this light filter. 

The `includeRoot` attribute indicates whether the pseudo-root path `/` should 
be counted as one of the included target paths. Note that the fallback value 
is true, which means that light filters will affect all objects illuminated
by the light(s) the filter is associated with.

See {ref}`collections_and_patterns` for more details on USD collections.


(LightFilter_lightFilter:shaderId)=

### lightFilter:shaderId

**USD type**: `token`

**Fallback value**: ``

The shader ID for a LightFilter. The fallback
value is no shader ID. 


(LightFilter_inheritedproperties_Xformable)=

## Inherited Properties ({ref}`Xformable`)

(LightFilter_xformOpOrder)=

### xformOpOrder

**USD type**: `token[]`



(LightFilter_inheritedproperties_Imageable)=

## Inherited Properties ({ref}`Imageable`)

(LightFilter_proxyPrim)=

### proxyPrim

**USD type**: `rel` (relationship)



(LightFilter_purpose)=

### purpose

**USD type**: `token`

**Fallback value**: `default`



(LightFilter_visibility)=

### visibility

**USD type**: `token`

**Fallback value**: `inherited`


